---
title: 'Dive into Motion Matching in UE'
date: 2024-09-29
permalink: /posts/2024/09/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Motion Matching
  - Game Development
  - Unreal Engine
---

UE 5.4 with Motion Matching
======

UE 5.4 has been released for nearly three months (actually I forgot how long since it was released, let's suppose it is 3 months), and the most blockbuster update would be the **Official Motion Matching**. In this year, the most sold game BlackMyth: Wukong claimed that they used Motion Matching to reduce the workloads of character animation and enhance the reality in their game, while they didn't use the official one. Actually, they bought a plugin from the UE market at first and spent some times to modify it so that the plugin can meet their needs, and I think it's quite tough work and UE does save us a lot of times. By the way, as for motion matching, I also implement it by myself in python for my homework, and I record it in another blog, thanks for Daniel's blog [The Orange Duck](https://www.theorangeduck.com/).

Motion Matching
======

OK, let's first talk about the motiong matching. Motion Matching [Clavet 2016] is one of the most significant and revolutional technology in character animation and game industry. I don't want to spend too much time on the theoretical things, because there have been too many blogs and papars trying to explain how motion matching works in detail, and I also wrote about that in another blog about implementing motion matching in python. Generally speaking, instead of using the handcrafted animation to motivate characters, motion matching directly searches for the most plausible pose in a mocap database to generate the next motion.

I want to talk about something more general, something like the advantages and limitations of motion matching. 

The Implementation in Official Motion Matching Sample
======



Aren't headings cool?
------

References
------
[1] Simon Clavet. 2016. Motion Matching and The Road to Next-Gen Animation. GDC ’16 (March 2016). (https://www.gdcvault.com/play/1023280/Motion-Matching-and-The-Road)